# The Ethics of Robotics in Elderly Caretaking
  
  Elder care is becoming a more prevalent issue as the elderly population increases, but the caregiver population stays constant. The solution the Japanese government is coming to is to apply advancing robot technology to assist the elderly. These robots are being to created to do a multitude of tasks, such as turning off lights, transforming into wheelchairs, lifting people, and  simply providing company. 
  
  The stakeholder in this situation is the Japanese government: according to Business Insider, a third of the government’s budget is going towards the development of these robots, coined “carebots.” While European and American countries are not struggling with the same age imbalance Japan is, funds and research are also occurring in those regions. Other parties of note are the electronics corporations and organizations involved in developing carebots that will compete to have the most marketable bot--Honda, Panasonic, RIKEN, CT Asia Robotics, among countless others--as well as the International Organization for Standardization (ISO), who must continuously develop standards for human-robot interaction as the technology advances. Individual engineers will be involved in the direct research and development of the robots, constantly making decisions that will directly affect lives once the products are on the market. Finally, the consumer public will have the most direct impact. Families purchasing carebots will see the most immediate effects, whether that is improved elder care or dealing with technical issues and accidents. Less directly, nursing home businesses will have to deal with competition from non-human sources, and family culture could change drastically.
  
  Under utilitarianism, the goal would be to maximize the happiness of all parties equally. Since robots have no way of showing emotion, this means making both the elderly and their respective families and caretakers happy. One could argue that having exclusively robots manage elder care would lead to the greatest amount of happiness among everyone, since seniors would (theoretically) be in good hands and their families would be able to focus on their own lives. However, it’s likely that the lack of human interaction would actually hurt seniors, meaning this would not lead to the most happiness for everyone. The best setup, therefore, is probably one where the elderly is taken care of by other people on occasion too. While there is less overall utility, since the caretaker has to use their time on someone else, the amount of total utility split between parties is much more equal.
  
  It can be argued that human-human interaction is often seen as more virtuous than robot-human interaction. The robot-human interactions lack the personal and emotional relationship and bonding that comes with a human-human interaction. Therefore the idea of shifting senior care to robots can be seen as partially failing the virtue test. The shift into senior robot care would deprive the elders of what little human-human interactions they already have. However, it can also be argued that the senior robot care system was the most cost effective way to tackle the problem of the decreasing number of senior caregivers. Although the shift in elder care to robots may not be the ideal way that elders should be taken care of, it is the most cost effect solution to the problem that people are no longer stepping up to care for seniors. The robot care system does not go strongly against moral standards either, and therefore it can be concluded that it does not fail the virtue test.
  
  If only robots are to care for the elderly, the system fails or passes the justice test depending on one’s views. If robots are not considered a being that carries a burden of work, then this passes the justice test. However, if they do carry the burdens of work, then having robots care for seniors fails the justice test because nobody else is doing their fair share of work. The solution would be to make a plan to distribute work equally among robots, workers, and family members so everyone contributes to serving the elderly. Under that system where everyone is pulling their weight, the justice system passes in all cases.
There are several economic challenges to consider with robots. Since this is still a relatively new technology undergoing development, there is a high cost associated with it. This high barrier of entry to the technology means only the wealthy would have access to these caretakers. Those less fortunate therefore cannot consider this an option for elder care. The only solution would be to offset the costs of these robots, possibly through government subsidization or third party assistance. In addition, most of the ethics tests suggest that the ideal balance in elder care would be some combination of human caretakers and robots. However, this means a consumer would have to pay twice for care, raising costs even more. Again, the only solution would be to somehow offset the total cost for care. 
	
  Historically, society has also been hesitant to accept new technology, especially from older generations. This could lead to people being afraid to use robots in elder care, even if they are competitively priced on the market. A simple mistake could lead to something as disastrous as death. To combat this, there needs to be as much transparency and communication about the technology as possible. Manufacturers would likely have to emphasize the safety of their products through demonstrations, tests, and more. There would also likely be a need for heavy regulation in this industry to calm the public’s fears. This would have to be maintained by the government to push safety and innovation among products. The downside of such a regulatory body would be the increased taxes from running it.
	
  All in all, there are many aspects to consider in relation to treating elders with robotic caretakers. Although there are still issues with the technology, it has the potential to be revolutionary in the future if society is able to solve the ethical problems associated with it. On the whole, our group has faith that given an appropriate amount of research and regulation, this technology has the potential to ease and enhance thousands of lives and families. Assuming this ensues, it will then be largely up to the companies producing these robots to convince the general public of the numerous benefits. 


*Sources*

http://www.businessinsider.com/japan-developing-carebots-for-elderly-care-2015-11

https://www.engadget.com/2017/08/29/robot-caregivers-are-saving-the-elderly-from-lives-of-loneliness/
