# Meeting Minutes

## September 14 

* Attendance: everyone is here
* Potentially adding gears to increase speed 
  * Distribute weight over bearings in future?
* Servos go different speeds backwards: need to modify speeds
* Speed of turning
  * Not to implement a full point turn, but partial
* Sensors
  * Do we want wall sensors running at all times or @ every intersection? 
    * Will decide later
* Return to lab 2
  * Need amplifier
  * Distinguish 660Hz tone from either side
  * "nicely merged?"
* Milestone
  * speed of servos/turning
* Emmett, sofya, dylan: Friday afternoon lab
* David, amanda: Saturday @ 2 lab
